What is Sirikata?
-----------------
Sirikata is a BSD licensed open source platform for games and virtual
worlds. We aim to provide a set of libraries and protocols which can
be used to deploy a virtual world, as well as fully featured sample
implementations of services for hosting and deploying these worlds.

What is sirikata-docs?
----------------------
This repository (sirikata-docs) contains the documentation for
Sirikata. It contains user guides for building projects on the
Sirikata platform (for instance, describing how to write scripts and
add content to a world).  It also contains developer guides for
modifying Sirikata's code or writing new plugins, for instance to fix
bugs in the system or add a new physics engine.

These are not API docs. That documentation is autogenerated from the
source code. You can autogenerate it yourself using Doxygen (see the
main repository at http://github.com/sirikata/sirikata) or you can see
the most up to date version at http://sirikata.com/docs/head/.

What tools are used and how is this repository structured?
----------------------------------------------------------
We use Sphinx (http://sphinx.pocoo.org/) for our documentation. To add
or modify documentation, you mainly need to understand
reStructuredText (http://docutils.sourceforge.net/rst.html), which is
the format used for Sphinx documents. It is an intuitive format that
is readable as plaintext, so just try jumping in. Adding references
between documents, glossary items, and code examples requires learning
a bit more about Sphinx.

Where can I find out more?
--------------------------
The most up to date information about the Sirikata project is at
http://www.sirikata.com. Find the current version of this
documentation on GitHub at http://github.com/sirikata/sirikata-docs/.
